Katib v1beta1 documentation update (#2312)
kubeflow/website: content/en/docs/components/katib/hyperparameter.md

+++
title = "Getting started with Katib"

> description = "How to set up Katib and run some hyperparameter tuning examples"

Reviewer: The fact that the readers would be learning through examples is probably a given, so I'd suggest:

```suggestion
description = "How to set up Katib and perform hyperparameter tuning"
```

weight = 20
                    
+++

> This page gets you started with Katib. Follow this guide to perform any
> additional setup you may need, depending on your environment, and to run a few
> examples using the command line and the Katib user interface (UI).

Reviewer: "get started" assumes the setup process is a given, I guess, so:

```suggestion
This guide shows how to get started with Katib and run a few
examples using the command line and the Katib user interface (UI)
to perform hyperparameter tuning.
```

For an overview of the concepts around Katib and hyperparameter tuning, check the
[introduction to Katib](/docs/components/katib/overview/).

## Katib setup

> This section describes some configurations that you may need to add to your
> Kubernetes cluster, depending on the way you're using Kubeflow and Katib.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's set up and configure Katib on your Kubernetes cluster with Kubeflow.
```

<a id="katib-install"></a>

### Installing Katib

You can skip this step if you have already installed Kubeflow. Your Kubeflow
deployment includes Katib.

To install Katib as part of Kubeflow, follow the
[Kubeflow installation guide](/docs/started/getting-started/).

If you want to install Katib separately from Kubeflow, or to get a later version
of Katib, run the following commands to install Katib directly from its
repository on GitHub and deploy Katib to your cluster:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/katib
make deploy
```

### Setting up persistent volumes

> If you used the [above script](#katib-install) to deploy Katib,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you used the [above-mentioned script](#katib-install) to deploy Katib,
```

> you can skip this step. This script deploys PVC and PV on your cluster.

Reviewer: Maybe add link to PVC and PV in case someone doesn't know what these are.

```suggestion
you can skip this step. This script deploys [PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) and [PersistentVolume (PV)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) on your cluster.
```

You can skip this step if you're using Kubeflow on Google Kubernetes Engine
(GKE) or if your Kubernetes cluster includes a StorageClass for dynamic volume
provisioning. For more information, check the Kubernetes documentation on
[dynamic provisioning](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/dynamic-provisioning/)
and [persistent volumes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/).

If you're using Katib outside GKE and your cluster doesn't include a

> StorageClass for dynamic volume provisioning, you must create a persistent
> volume (PV) to bind to the persistent volume claim (PVC) required by Katib.

Reviewer: I think it's

```suggestion
StorageClass for dynamic volume provisioning, you must create a PersistentVolume (PV) to bind to the PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) required by Katib.
```

(Maybe)

Author: I will use PV and PVC, since we mentioned it above.

After deploying Katib to your cluster, run the following command to create the
PV:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/katib/master/manifests/v1beta1/pv/pv.yaml
```

The above `kubectl apply` command uses a YAML file

> ([`pv.yaml`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/katib/master/manifests/v1beta1/pv/pv.yaml))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
— [`pv.yaml`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/katib/master/manifests/v1beta1/pv/pv.yaml) — 
```

If you installed Katib as part of Kubeflow, you can't run experiments in Kubeflow namespace.
Run the following commands to change namespace and launch an experiment using the random algorithm
example:

1. Download the example:

   ```shell
   curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/katib/master/examples/v1beta1/random-example.yaml --output random-example.yaml
   ```

1. Edit `random-example.yaml` and change the following line to use your Kubeflow user profile namespace:

   ```shell
   Namespace: kubeflow
   ```

1. Deploy the example:

   ```shell
   kubectl apply -f random-example.yaml
   ```

This example embeds the hyperparameters as arguments. You can embed
hyperparameters in another way (for example, using environment variables)
by using the template defined in the `trialTemplate.trialSpec` section of
the YAML file. The template uses the
[unstructured](https://godoc.org/k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/apis/meta/v1/unstructured)
format and substitutes parameters from the `trialTemplate.trialParameters`.
Follow the [trial template guide](/docs/components/katib/trial-template/)
to know more about it.

This example randomly generates the following hyperparameters:

> - `--lr`: Learning rate. Type: double.
> - `--num-layers`: Number of layers in the neural network. Type: integer.
> - `--optimizer`: Optimizer. Type: categorical.

Reviewer: Would it make sense to say "A gradient descent optimizer for neural network training"? So many variables are being optimized during training, especially in AutoML, it may get confusing for a few:

```suggestion
- `--lr`: Learning rate. Type: double.
- `--num-layers`: Number of layers in the neural network. Type: integer.
- `--optimizer`: Gradient descent optimizer for neural network training. Type: categorical.
```

Author: I think we can re-name it to: "Optimization method to change the neural network attributes".
WDYT ?

Reviewer: If Katib (AutoML) is for classic deep learning stuff only right now, then it's trying to update the weights and minimize the loss function using the optimizer (with the `lr` using gradient descent, until there's a better way to optimize).

One of the examples on `kubeflow/katib` says it can be stoch. gradient descent/SGD or Adam, so I think we have to be precise here:

"`--optimizer`: Gradient descent optimizer for neural network training, implements backpropagation. Type: categorical."

Or something along those lines.

Check the experiment status:

```shell

> kubectl -n <your user profile namespace> get experiment random-example -o yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl -n <YOUR_USER_PROFILE_NAMESPACE> get experiment random-example -o yaml
```

(make it stand out a little)

        - latest: "0.993170"
          max: "0.993170"
          min: "0.920293"
          name: Train-accuracy
        - latest: "0.978006"
          max: "0.978603"
          min: "0.959295"
          name: Validation-accuracy
    parameterAssignments:
      - name: lr
        value: "0.02889324678979306"
      - name: num-layers
        value: "5"
      - name: optimizer
        value: sgd
  runningTrialList:
    - random-example-26d5wzn2
    - random-example-98fpd29m
    - random-example-x2vjlzzv
  startTime: "2020-10-23T21:27:53Z"
  succeededTrialList:
    - random-example-n9c4j4cv
    - random-example-qfb68jpb
    - random-example-s96tq48v
    - random-example-smpc6ws2
  trials: 7
  trialsRunning: 3
  trialsSucceeded: 4
```

When the last value in `status.conditions.type` is `Succeeded`, the experiment
is complete. You can check information about the best trial in `status.currentOptimalTrial`.

- `.currentOptimalTrial.bestTrialName` is the trial name.

- `.currentOptimalTrial.observation.metrics` is the `max`, `min` and `latest` recorded values for objective
  and additional metrics.

- `.currentOptimalTrial.parameterAssignments` is the corresponding hyperparameter set.

> As well, `status` shows the experiment's trials with the current statuses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, `status` shows the experiment's trials with their current status.
```

(statuses and status both work, I think(

<a id="view-ui"></a>

View the results of the experiment in the Katib UI:

1. Open the Katib UI as described [above](#katib-ui).
1. Click **Hyperparameter Tuning** on the Katib home page.
1. Open the Katib menu panel on the left, then open the **HP** section and
   click **Monitor**:

   <img src="/docs/images/katib/katib-menu.png"
       alt="The Katib menu panel"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

> 1. You should see the list of experiments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You should be able to view the list of experiments:
```

   <img src="/docs/images/katib/katib-experiments.png"
     alt="The random example in the list of Katib experiments"
     class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Click the name of the experiment, **random-example**.

> 1. You should see a graph showing the level of validation and train accuracy for various

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. There should be a graph showing the level of validation and train accuracy for various
```

   combinations of the hyperparameter values (learning rate, number of layers,
   and optimizer):

   <img src="/docs/images/katib/katib-random-example-graph.png"
       alt="Graph produced by the random example"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Below the graph is a list of trials that ran within the experiment:

   <img src="/docs/images/katib/katib-random-example-trials.png"
     alt="Trials that ran during the experiment"
     class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

1. You can click on trial name to see metrics for the particular trial:

   <img src="/docs/images/katib/katib-random-example-trial-info.png"
     alt="Trials that ran during the experiment"
     class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

### TensorFlow example

> If you installed Katib as part of Kubeflow, you can’t run experiments in Kubeflow namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you installed Katib as part of Kubeflow, you can’t run experiments in the Kubeflow namespace.
```

Run the following commands to launch an experiment using the Kubeflow's
TensorFlow training job operator, TFJob:

1. Download `tfjob-example.yaml`:

   ```shell
   curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/katib/master/examples/v1beta1/tfjob-example.yaml --output tfjob-example.yaml
   ```

1. Edit `tfjob-example.yaml` and change the following line to use your Kubeflow user profile namespace:

   ```shell
   Namespace: kubeflow
   ```

1. Deploy the example:

   ```shell
   kubectl apply -f tfjob-example.yaml
   ```

1. You can check the status of the experiment:

   ```shell
   kubectl -n <your user profile namespace> get experiment tfjob-example -o yaml
   ```

Follow the steps as described for the _random algorithm example_

> [above](#view-ui), to see the results of the experiment in the Katib UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[above](#view-ui) to obtain the results of the experiment in the Katib UI.
```

### PyTorch example

> If you installed Katib as part of Kubeflow, you can’t run experiments in Kubeflow namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you installed Katib as part of Kubeflow, you can’t run experiments in the Kubeflow namespace.
```

Run the following commands to launch an experiment using Kubeflow's PyTorch
training job operator, PyTorchJob:

1. Download `pytorchjob-example.yaml`:

   ```shell
   curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/katib/master/examples/v1beta1/pytorchjob-example.yaml --output pytorchjob-example.yaml
   ```

1. Edit `pytorchjob-example.yaml` and change the following line to use your Kubeflow user profile namespace:

   ```shell
   Namespace: kubeflow
   ```

1. Deploy the example:

   ```shell
   kubectl apply -f pytorchjob-example.yaml
   ```

1. You can check the status of the experiment:

   ```shell
   kubectl -n <your user profile namespace> describe experiment pytorchjob-example
   ```

Follow the steps as described for the _random algorithm example_

> [above](#view-ui), to see the results of the experiment in the Katib UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[above](#view-ui) to get the results of the experiment in the Katib UI.
```

> ## Cleanup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cleaning up
```

> To delete Katib from Kubernetes cluster run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove Katib from your Kubernetes cluster run:
```

Run the following commands to launch an experiment using Kubeflow's PyTorch
training job operator, PyTorchJob:

> 1. Download the pytorchjob-example.yaml file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download `pytorchjob-example.yaml`:
```

"...or the `...` file:" (as before)
("code font")

## Cleanup

To delete Katib from Kubernetes cluster run:

> 

Reviewer: @andreyvelich Hi!

On Lines 424-430 - please double check your hyperlinks. Also, can we refactor this for accessibility/inclusivity ("see" -> "refer to" or "go to" or similar)?

For example:

```
- Learn to configure and run your experiment with Katib in the
  [running an experiment](/docs/components/hyperparameter-tuning/experiment/) guide.
- About the [Katib configuration file (Katib config)](/docs/components/hyperparameter-tuning/katib-config/).
- How to [set up environment variables for each Katib component](/docs/components/hyperparameter-tuning/env-variables/).
```

@andreyvelich Please double check your links. I think `/docs/components/hyperparameter-tuning/...` work but the older `/docs/components/katib/`? don't (not any more, at least). Thanks!

Reviewer: Update: The links are changing to `docs/components/kativ` - Got it!
